# React and React Native Chapter 1

Notes made from: [React and React Native](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/react-and-react/9781803231280/B18316_01_ePub.xhtml).

## What is React?
* "A JavaScript library for building user interfaces."
* view layer

Application code -> Data -> React Component -> Browser DOM
* React divided into to main parts:
  * React Component API -> parts of the page rendered by the React DOM
  * React DOM -> API used to perform the rendering on a web page

* Within a React Component:
  * Data: This is data that comes from somewhere (the component doesn't care where) and is rendered by the component.
  * Lifecycle: This consists of methods or Hooks that we implement to respond to the component's entering and exiting phases of the React rendering process as they happen over time – for example, one phase of the life cycle is when the component is about to be rendered.
  * Events: These are the code that we write for responding to user interactions.
  * JSX: This is the syntax of React components used to describe UI structures.

> The Document Object Model (DOM) represents HTML in the browser after it has been rendered. The DOM API is how JavaScript is able to change content on a page.

On first render, React is very similar to template libraries like handlebars.

> When you read about React, you'll often see words such as diffing and patching. Diffing means comparing old content with new content to figure out what's changed. Patching means executing the necessary DOM operations to render the new content.

## Blocks of code

```
let message = 'Hello world';
alert(message);
```

## Inline code

This web site is using `markedjs/marked`.

## Lists

### Unordered

* Item 1
* Item 2
* Item 2a
* Item 2b

### Ordered

1. Item 1
1. Item 2
1. Item 3
  1. Item 3a
  1. Item 3b