# Chapter 1 - Why React?

Notes made from: [React Chapter 1](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/react-and-react/9781803231280/B18316_01_ePub.xhtml#_idParaDest-19).

- React is just the view layer

## React APIs

React Component API - parts of the page that are rendered by the React DOM

- Data
- Lifecycle - methods/hooks we implement to respond to the component's entering/exiting phases of React rendering process
- Events - code for responding to user interactions
- JSX - syntax of React components to describe UI structures (JS XML)
  React DOM - the API used to perform the rendering on a web page
- render()

- data changes over time
- Components are declarative for the initial render, and they stay this way even as they're re-rendered.
- When you read about React, you'll often see words such as diffing and patching. Diffing means comparing old content with new content to figure out what's changed. Patching means executing the necessary DOM operations to render the new content.

- As with any other JavaScript library, React is constrained by the run-to-completion nature of the main thread. For example, if the React internals are busy diffing content and patching the DOM, the browser can't respond to user input.
- React 18 introduces the notion of a state transition. The idea with state transitions is that the less important state updates that take place in your application should have lower priority than state updates that should happen immediately.

## Blocks of code

```
let message = 'Hello world';
alert(message);
```

## Inline code

This web site is using `markedjs/marked`.

## Lists

### Unordered

- Item 1
- Item 2
- Item 2a
- Item 2b

### Ordered

1. Item 1
1. Item 2
1. Item 3
1. Item 3a
1. Item 3b
